Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

This file is part of the GNU MP Library.

The GNU MP Library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

The GNU MP Library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public
License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with the GNU MP Library; see the file COPYING.LIB.  If not, write to
the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111-1307, USA.





                    POWERPC 32-BIT MPN SUBROUTINES


This directory contains mpn functions for various 32-bit PowerPC chips.


CODE ORGANIZATION

	powerpc           generic, 604, 604e
	powerpc/750       740, 750, 7400


The top-level powerpc directory is currently mostly aimed at 604/604e but
should be reasonable on all powerpcs.



STATUS

The code is quite well optimized for the 604e, other chips have had less
attention.

Altivec SIMD available in 7400 might hold some promise, but unfortunately
GMP only guarantees 32-bit data alignment, so there's lots of fiddling
around with partial operations at the start and end of limb vectors.  A
128-bit limb would be a novel idea, but is unlikely to be practical, since
it would have to work with ordinary +, -, * etc in the C code.



REGISTER NAMES

The normal powerpc convention is to give registers as plain numbers, like
"mtctr 6", but on Apple MacOS X (powerpc*-*-rhapsody* and
powerpc*-*-darwin*) the assembler demands an "r" like "mtctr r6".  Note
however when register 0 in an instruction means a literal zero the "r" is
omitted, for instance "lwzx r6,0,r7".

The GMP code uses the "r" forms, powerpc-defs.m4 transforms them to plain
numbers according to what GMP_ASM_POWERPC_R_REGISTERS finds is needed.




REFERENCES

PowerPC Microprocessor Family: The Programming Environments for 32-bit
Microprocessors, IBM document G522-0290-01, 2000.

PowerPC 604e RISC Microprocessor User's Manual with Supplement for PowerPC
604 Microprocessor, IBM document G552-0330-00, Motorola document
MPC604EUM/AD, 1998.

MPC7400 RISC Microprocessor User's Manual, Motorola document MPC7400UM/D,
rev 0, 3/2000.

The above are available online from

	http://chips.ibm.com/techlib/products/powerpc/manuals
	http://www.mot.com/PowerPC



----------------
Local variables:
mode: text
fill-column: 76
End:
